question:
Explain supervised learning and it's types.

answer:
In the predictive or supervised learning approach, the goal is to learn a mapping from inputs x to outputs y.
Given a labeled set of input-output pairs D={(xi,yi)} where i=1 to N ,
Here D is called the training set, and N is the number of training examples,
xi is called as feature, attribute or covariate.
Output or response variable can in principle be anything, 
but most methods assume that yi is a categorical or nominal variable from some finite set, 
yi ={ 1,...,C}  (such as male or female), 
or that yi is a real-valued scalar (such as income level). 
When yi is categorical, the problem is known as classification or pattern recognition. 
When yi is real-valued, the problem is known as regression. 
Another variant, known as ordinal regression, occurs where label space Y has some natural ordering, such as grades A–F.
Regression:
We have a single real-valued input xi and a single real-valued response yi.
If we take y=mx+c ,when a value for x is given , we get corresponding value for y which can be used to plot graph.
Various extensions of this basic problem can arise, such as having high dimensional inputs,outliers,non smooth responses, etc.
2)classification:
Here the goal is to learn a mapping from inputs x to outputs y, where y ={ 1,...,C}, with C being the number of classes. 
If C =2, this is called binary classification (in which case we often assume y ={ 0,1}).
If C>2, this is called multiclass classification . 
If the class labels are not mutually exclusive (somebody may be classified as tall and strong),
we call it multi-label classification, 
but this is best viewed as predicting multiple related binary class labels (a so-called multiple output model). 
Our main goal is to make predictions on novel inputs, 
meaning ones that we have not seen before (this is called generalization),
since predicting the response on the training set is easy.

input
output
training set
training example
feature
categorical
real valued
regression
classification
single real valued response
high dimensional inputs
outlier
non smooth response
classes
binary classification
multiclass classification
multi-label classification
generalization